So we have learned what a program is.
But the next question is how do we write our program or in other words how do we express our idea and
our intention for making that idea come to life in a programming language.
That's a great question.
So the simplest way to do this is to express our intention in a series of steps.
So we have our program be a giant list of lines with no proper organization of any sort.
Just have it be this.
Do that do more of this do more of that.
Do something else.
Here's an example demonstrating the idea let's say our intention is to create an application that allows
us to provide a YouTube's user name and based on that allows us to print a full length for their YouTube
channel.
Here's a simple pseudocode which is just us writing the program line by line without any specific organization
as agreed.
And once again this is not a real program.
This is just pseudocode for us to get the concept.
So in other words it is a fake programming language.
And the point of it is to get the concept of how we write a program and how object or programming evolved
from that.
And as you can see I have some variables here and I'm assigning the user name.
And then here I'm printing the full link on how to access their YouTube channels.
Now let's go wants to forward in the evolution of the program and talk about procedural programming.
This is a programming paradigm which says this instead of writing our program line by line let's organize
those common lines into procedures or functions so that if we want to use them again we don't have to
repeat ourselves.
For example in the initial example we see that if for whatever reason the youtube channel link changes
we would need to change it in all the three places granite.
In this case it is not that difficult to do.
But imagine if you had thousands of lines and changes were happening very frequently.
So for example if we changed the youtube link to something else then we would have to change it here
here and here.
And it's easy for this case but if there was thousands of lines everywhere and changes were happening
frequently then we would have a problem.
Bottom line is that in the field of software development and computer science we want to simplify things.
Programs are becoming more and more complex to write and even harder to maintain.
So with new programming paradigms we're trying to simplify this process making software more scalable
maintainable and readable so that big teams can work together over long periods of time regardless of
the amount of code present in the code base.
Now let's go ahead and rewrite the code and use procedural programming paradigm.
I will go ahead and create a method called Print YouTube channel.
So I will say print YouTube channel.
Then I will pass in YouTube user name as a parameter.
And then what I will do is I will simply print the print outs I will use the same functionality there
but differences that then I can use this method three times or however many times I want from now on
in order to print what I want.
So here we go
here.
The grand cartoon form.
And here we go.
See here we don't have to repeat ourselves and we can use a procedure in order to unify common functionality.
This is much better than our original implementation.
The reason is because as I've said before if the link changes now in this example we only have to change
it in one place.
So now it is maintainable.
It's also readable because we understand what's going on based on the name of the function as opposed
to just looking at multiple lines and not understanding what it is trying to do or we can't understand
what it's trying to do.
But it's gonna take us a little bit more.
So it's not as readable.
Now let's talk about object oriented programming.
What is it object or programming is a programming paradigm which allows us to solve problems via an
object or more collection of collaborating objects.
So in other words we have objects which represent the real world.
And through those objects we describe our intention each object contains a behavior and or attribute
just like a real object for example a rock is an object that has an attribute of color and age and behavior
of degrading.
Another example is a person which has an attribute of age name and many others and a behavior walking
and talking amongst other behaviors.
One other example is a YouTube who has an attribute of user name and a behavior of printing out the
full YouTube channel link based on the user name rings a bell.
Exactly.
This is our initial example see what we did.
We combine attributes a.k.a. data and the behavior together in one object which describes our intention
much more naturally since it is aligned with the real world and how we as humans think we think and
objects and hence object our inner programming lets us think the way we naturally do procedural programming
might sound a bit too cryptic since we don't think and functions with that cell let's go ahead and rewrite
this and object doing it programming I will make an object called YouTube.
I will go ahead and take this out.
Combine these two more lines and then I will say class
YouTube to
my username.
Then I will say constructor
given user name
my username equals giving user name then I will create a function called Print for Channel path.
I will say print.
So there are going to have here but I'm going to use my username right here.
Then I will go ahead and use this object.
So say var powerful Gyari equals new YouTube where
and then I will say powerful Jerry dot Grenfell channel path.
All right.
And then for the rest of the guys.
So that news for Gary V.
Those four grand car known.
And here we go.
We have a class and then we instantiate that class right here to get an object and each object then
has a behavior print full channel path print full channel path then accesses the data that is within
the instantiated object which is for this one for this one and for this one each one gets its own variable
so it's its own container.
And then when we run the behavior the function the behavior acts on the data that is within the object
that it's in so behavior and data are both encapsulated in one object and this behavior which is this
guy uses the attribute that is within the object within the same object that it's in.
All right.
Now some of the concepts might be new to you such as constructor and a class but I will go with the
old p basics in the next video just so you're familiar with those things before we move on.
Very quickly a constructor is just a function that lets you build the object says these are the things
I need before I can create an object for you.
It's a gatekeeper.
So in this case it says I need a user name before I can create an object for you.
A class is a blueprint for the object.
So it is the roadmap that you need to use in order to create your object.
Look at it as a factory and your object things coming out of the factory instantiating a class just
means we're using the class to create an object.
So the instance of our object is then assigned to a variable such as wants to have above.
So right here we're instantiating and then that instantiate a class gets assigned to this variable which
is which it basically creates an object that creates an instance of an object from our class blueprint.
We create an instance of an object like so that then gets assigned to a variable and the variable we
can name anything one.
In this case powerful Jerry in this case is Gary V in this case is Grant Cardone And then that variable
is the instance of our object right.
So then we can then use the behaviors which are specific to our instance of the object.
Once again don't worry we'll be talking about all this in our later videos.
Now once again what are the benefits here.
First we have data and behavior in one place.
So if we were to pass a grand car don't object to any other function or decided to use it anywhere else.
We don't have to worry about passing in the data with it.
Once you pass it to the constructor you create the object then the object will have everything it needs
to know how to operate itself.
It is autonomous.
Second thing is it still has the benefits of not repeating itself.
Meaning that the code is only written one such as the print full channel path behavior so to recap object
or in programming makes it easier for us to think in terms of objects keeps our code clean by letting
us have scalable maintainable and readable code through packing attributes and behavior together in
one object and allowing us to unify code in behaviors so we don't have to repeat ourselves.
I'll see you guys in the next video.